docs(blog): add article about event driven documentation (#915)
asyncapi/website: pages/blog/event-driven-api-documentation-made-simple-clientside-rendering.md

    photo: /img/avatars/michalgornicki.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/michal-gornicki-83865161/
excerpt: A simple guide for programmers looking for instructions on how to generate documentation using their AsyncAPI files.
---

> This post originally appeared on [Michal's Corner](https://michals-corner.vercel.app/blog/event-driven-documentation)

This guide is directed toward folks looking for instructions on how to generate documentation using their AsyncAPI files. Event-driven APIs are not the same as the synchronous APIs you usually document with OpenAPI or GraphQL. Many people use AsyncAPI now, and it is time to provide the community with a guide that shows what options the community has to render documentation on the client-side.

Oh, if you are still not sure about Client-Side Rendering or Server-Side Rendering, then you can read all about it here 👉 [Website rendering for beginners](https://michals-corner.vercel.app/blog/website-rendering-for-beginners) (shameless plug 😉).

I will cover the usage for:

- [React](#react)
- [Vue](#vue)
- [Web Components](#wc)
- [Standalone Bundle](#sb)

All examples will use this same AsyncAPI sample file 👇

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

We should point to the language which we use in the multiline code blocks - for better rendering :)

{

>   "asyncapi": "2.2.0",

Reviewer: Better option will be point to the latest version of asyncapi:

```suggestion
  "asyncapi": "2.4.0",
```

It would be nice to add information that the spec is used as JSON to make it easier to use on the JS side :) Small suggestion, you don't need to add it.

Author: @magicmatatjahu that's done

    }
  },
  "components": {
    "messages": {
      "UserSignedUp": {
        "payload": {
          "type": "object",
          "properties": {
            "displayName": {
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Name of the user"
            },
            "email": {
              "type": "string",
              "format": "email",
              "description": "Email of the user"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This is the expected look of the generated document 👇

![document-template](/img/posts/event-driven-API-documentation-made-simple/document-template.webp "Document template")

All usage examples from this article are available to check on [asyncapi-docs-rendering-examples](https://github.com/m1ner79/asyncapi-docs-rendering-examples) repository.

---

### <a name="react"></a>React

If you wish to render documentation from your AsyncAPI file in React application, then you need to use [AsyncAPI React component](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react).

1️⃣ To install the **React AsyncAPI component** run the command `npm install --save @asyncapi/react-component@next`.

2️⃣ Now, create **index.js** file and type in:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";

import AsyncApiComponent from "@asyncapi/react-component";
import "@asyncapi/react-component/styles/default.min.css";

import { specMock } from "./testDoc";

const rootElement = document.getElementById("root");
ReactDOM.render(<AsyncApiComponent schema={specMock} />, rootElement);
```

**React AsyncAPI component** is imported on the **line 4**.

> If you are happy with AsyncAPI styling then you need to import their CSS pattern with `import "@asyncapi/react-component/styles/default.min.css";`

Reviewer: Such a code line should be transformed to the code block for better reading:

```suggestion
If you are happy with AsyncAPI styling then you need to import their CSS pattern with:

\```js
import "@asyncapi/react-component/styles/default.min.css";
\```
```

Please remove `/` before backticks - github markdown preview breaks markdown when you use multiline code blocks in another code blocks.

On the **line 7** is where AsyncAPI sample file is imported.

---

> ### <a name="vue"></a>Vue

Reviewer: I made doc for vue probably one year ago and for Vue 2.x (Vue 3.x was still in beta), so please make note in this section that given instruction is for Vue 2.x :)

Author: @magicmatatjahu that's added now

If you wish to generate documentation from your AsyncAPI file in Vue application, then you need to use [AsyncApiStandalone bundle](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/vue.md).

> 1️⃣ React AsyncAPI component is required here as well, so again you need to run `npm install --save @asyncapi/react-component@next` command.

Reviewer: As in another comment I wrote, please change that inline code block to the multiline code blocks with `bash` language

Author: @magicmatatjahu done

2️⃣ In your **App.vue** just add this code:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```vue
```

<template>
  <div ref="asyncapi"></div>
</template>

<script>
import AsyncApiStandalone from '@asyncapi/react-component/browser/standalone';

// AsyncAPI specification, fetched or pasted.
const schema =
'{"asyncapi":"2.4.0","info":{"title":"Account Service","version":"1.0.0","description":"This service is in charge of processing user signups"},"channels":{"user/signedup":{"subscribe":{"message":{"$ref":"#/components/messages/UserSignedUp"}}}},"components":{"messages":{"UserSignedUp":{"payload":{"type":"object","properties":{"displayName":{"type":"string","description":"Name of the user"},"email":{"type":"string","format":"email","description":"Email of the user"}}}}}}}';

const config = {}; // Configuration for component. This same as for normal React component.

export default {
  name: 'AsyncApiComponent',
  props: {
    msg: String
  },
  mounted() {
    const container = this.$refs.asyncapi;
    AsyncApiStandalone.render({ schema, config }, container);
  }
}
</script>

<style scope src="@/assets/asyncapi.min.css"></style>
```

> As you can see on **line 6**, you need to import **AsyncApiStandalone** bundle with `import AsyncApiStandalone from '@asyncapi/react-component/browser/standalone';` command.

Reviewer: Inline code block -> multiline code block :)

Author: that's addressed

3️⃣ There is one more thing to do. If you like AsyncAPI styling then you need to go to 👉 `node_modules/@asyncapi/react-component/style/default.min.css`.

Copy that file and then paste it into your _**assets**_ folder.

> I renamed mine **asyncapi.min.css**.

Reviewer: Yeah, it's true, we have similar solution in our docs, but in Vue you can also point to the styles from `node_modules` POV. I will update docs, but we should also point to second approach in this blog post, my suggestion:

```
You can also import styles from `node_modules`:

/```vue
<style scope src='@asyncapi/react-component/style/default.min.css'></style>
/```
```

Please remove `/` before backticks - github markdown preview breaks markdown when you use multiline code blocks in another code blocks.

Author: @magicmatatjahu added that bit

You can import this in your **main.js** file with `import './assets/asyncapi.min.css'` or, as I did, add it at the end of **App.vue** file with `<style scope src="@/assets/asyncapi.min.css"></style>`.

---

### <a name="wc"></a>Web Components

> To generate documentation from your AsyncAPI file, you can use it as an element of an HTML webpage or as a web component in any other web framework you choose. You can do this by implementing [web-react-components](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/web-component.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate documentation from your AsyncAPI file, you can use it as an element of an HTML webpage or as a web component in any other web framework you choose. You can do this by using [web-react-components](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/web-component.md).
```

1️⃣ Just create a **.html** file then copy and paste this code 👇

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```html
```

  config='{"show": {"sidebar": false}}'

  cssImportPath="https://unpkg.com/@asyncapi/react-component@1.0.0-next.39/styles/default.min.css">
</asyncapi-component>
```

2️⃣ If you need support for old browsers then you need to add this script as well `<script src="https://unpkg.com/@webcomponents/webcomponentsjs@2.5.0/webcomponents-bundle.js"></script>`.

That is it! 🤯 Just awesome!

---

### <a name="sb"></a>Standalone Bundle

If you want to render documentation from your AsyncAPI file without the use of any framework but with just an HTML webpage then you will need the [Standalone bundle](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/standalone-bundle.md).

1️⃣ All you need is just a basic HTML template.

2️⃣ In the **head** element enter `<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/@asyncapi/react-component@1.0.0-next.39/styles/default.min.css">` to get AsyncAPI document styling.

3️⃣ In the **body** element type in:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```html
```

    <script src="https://unpkg.com/@asyncapi/react-component@1.0.0-next.39/browser/standalone/index.js"></script>
    <script>
        AsyncApiStandalone.render({
            schema: '{"asyncapi":"2.4.0","info":{"title":"Account Service","version":"1.0.0","description":"This service is in charge of processing user signups"},"channels":{"user/signedup":{"subscribe":{"message":{"$ref":"#/components/messages/UserSignedUp"}}}},"components":{"messages":{"UserSignedUp":{"payload":{"type":"object","properties":{"displayName":{"type":"string","description":"Name of the user"},"email":{"type":"string","format":"email","description":"Email of the user"}}}}}}}'
            ,
            config: {
                show: {
                    sidebar: false,
                }
            },
        }, document.getElementById('asyncapi'));
    </script>
```

`<script src="https://unpkg.com/@asyncapi/react-component@1.0.0-next.39/browser/standalone/index.js"></script>` fetches everything required from the bundle.

I almost forgot.

There is one more way to configure the AsyncAPI component.
You can do it through **config** props, this same as for normal React component.

> My **Web Component** and **Standalone Bundle** usage examples have `config='{"show": {"sidebar": false}}` which turns a sidebar off, but if you change it to _**true**_ then your rendered document will have a sidebar.

Reviewer: `show.sidebar` is by default set to `false` so better idea will be to set to `true` in above examples and describe here that user can change it to his/her preference.

Author: @magicmatatjahu I have changed that part a bit.

> This was only a sample of what could be done. AsyncAPI can do a lot more. Check [AsyncAPI documentation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tutorials/getting-started/asyncapi-documents) for more information on how to generate docs.

Reviewer: I don't think so that link is good - atm we don't have any docs for generating in our website. Maybe you had in mind your blog posts in your site, hmm? :)

Reviewer: Also, you can mention at the end (or create separate section for that) that AsyncAPI Standalone Bundle can be used in Angular 2+ apps and point to the official docs https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/angular.md WDYT?

Author: @magicmatatjahu re "I don't think so that link is good - atm we don't have any docs for generating in our website. Maybe you had in mind your blog posts in your site, hmm? :)" 
I don't think I was clear enough. I wanted to point users into your documentation so they will be able to amend sample file.
I changed it. Please let me know will that suffice.

Regarding request about Angular2, I just added a short sentence.

---
title: Event driven API documentation made simple (Client-Side Rendering).
date: 2022-08-22T9:43:15+01:00
featured: true
type: Engineering
tags: ['documentation','guide']
cover: /img/posts/event-driven-API-documentation-made-simple/documentation.webp
authors:
  - name: Michal Gornicki
    photo: /img/avatars/michalgornicki.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/michal-gornicki-83865161/
excerpt: A simple guide for programmers looking for instructions on how to generate documentation using their AsyncAPI files.
---

> This post originally appeared on [Michal's Corner](https://michals-corner.vercel.app/blog/event-driven-documentation)

> This guide is directed toward folks looking for instructions on how to generate documentation using their AsyncAPI files. Event-driven APIs are not the same as the synchronous APIs you usually document with OpenAPI or GraphQL. Many people use AsyncAPI now, and it is time to provide the community with a guide that shows what options the community has to render documentation on the client-side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide is directed toward folks seeking instructions on generating documentation using their AsyncAPI files. Event-driven APIs are not the same as the synchronous APIs you usually document with OpenAPI or GraphQL. Many people use AsyncAPI now, and it is time to provide the community with a guide that shows what options the community has to render documentation on the client side.
```

> Oh, if you are still not sure about Client-Side Rendering or Server-Side Rendering, then you can read all about it here 👉 [Website rendering for beginners](https://michals-corner.vercel.app/blog/website-rendering-for-beginners) (shameless plug 😉).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Oh, if you are still not sure about client or server side rendering, then you can read all about it here 👉 [Website rendering for beginners](https://michals-corner.vercel.app/blog/website-rendering-for-beginners) (shameless plug 😉).
```

I will cover the usage for:

- [React](#react)
- [Vue](#vue)
- [Web Components](#wc)
- [Standalone Bundle](#sb)

All examples will use this same AsyncAPI sample file 👇

```json
{
  "asyncapi": "2.4.0",
  "info": {
    "title": "Account Service",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "This service is in charge of processing user signups"
  },
  "channels": {
    "user/signedup": {
      "subscribe": {
        "message": {
          "$ref": "#/components/messages/UserSignedUp"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "components": {
    "messages": {
      "UserSignedUp": {
        "payload": {
          "type": "object",
          "properties": {
            "displayName": {
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Name of the user"
            },
            "email": {
              "type": "string",
              "format": "email",
              "description": "Email of the user"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This is the expected look of the generated document 👇

![document-template](/img/posts/event-driven-API-documentation-made-simple/document-template.webp "Document template")

> All usage examples from this article are available to check on [asyncapi-docs-rendering-examples](https://github.com/m1ner79/asyncapi-docs-rendering-examples) repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All usage examples from this article are available to check on the [asyncapi-docs-rendering-examples](https://github.com/m1ner79/asyncapi-docs-rendering-examples) repository.
```

---

### <a name="react"></a>React

> If you wish to render documentation from your AsyncAPI file in React application, then you need to use [AsyncAPI React component](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you wish to render documentation from your AsyncAPI file in React application, then you need to use the [AsyncAPI React component](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react).
```

1️⃣ To install the **React AsyncAPI component** run the command `npm install --save @asyncapi/react-component@next`.

> 2️⃣ Now, create **index.js** file and type in:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2️⃣ Now, create a **index.js** file and type the following:
```

```js
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";

import AsyncApiComponent from "@asyncapi/react-component";
import "@asyncapi/react-component/styles/default.min.css";

import { specMock } from "./testDoc";

const rootElement = document.getElementById("root");
ReactDOM.render(<AsyncApiComponent schema={specMock} />, rootElement);
```

> **React AsyncAPI component** is imported on the **line 4**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here we can see that the **React AsyncAPI component** is imported on **line 4**.
```

If you are happy with AsyncAPI styling then you need to import their CSS pattern with:

\```js
import "@asyncapi/react-component/styles/default.min.css";
\```

> On the **line 7** is where AsyncAPI sample file is imported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Line 7** is where the sample AsyncAPI file is imported.
```

---

### <a name="vue"></a>Vue

> If you wish to generate documentation from your AsyncAPI file in Vue application, then you need to use [AsyncApiStandalone bundle](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/vue.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you wish to generate documentation from your AsyncAPI file in a Vue application, you need to use the [AsyncApiStandalone bundle](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/vue.md).
```

> 1️⃣ React AsyncAPI component is required here as well, so again you need to run `npm install --save @asyncapi/react-component@next` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1️⃣ The React AsyncAPI component is also required here, so you need to run the `npm install --save @asyncapi/react-component@next` command.
```

2️⃣ In your **App.vue** just add this code:

```vue
<template>
  <div ref="asyncapi"></div>
</template>

<script>
import AsyncApiStandalone from '@asyncapi/react-component/browser/standalone';

// AsyncAPI specification, fetched or pasted.
const schema =
'{"asyncapi":"2.4.0","info":{"title":"Account Service","version":"1.0.0","description":"This service is in charge of processing user signups"},"channels":{"user/signedup":{"subscribe":{"message":{"$ref":"#/components/messages/UserSignedUp"}}}},"components":{"messages":{"UserSignedUp":{"payload":{"type":"object","properties":{"displayName":{"type":"string","description":"Name of the user"},"email":{"type":"string","format":"email","description":"Email of the user"}}}}}}}';

const config = {}; // Configuration for component. This same as for normal React component.

export default {
  name: 'AsyncApiComponent',
  props: {
    msg: String
  },
  mounted() {
    const container = this.$refs.asyncapi;
    AsyncApiStandalone.render({ schema, config }, container);
  }
}
</script>

<style scope src="@/assets/asyncapi.min.css"></style>
```

> As you can see on **line 6**, you need to import **AsyncApiStandalone** bundle with `import AsyncApiStandalone from '@asyncapi/react-component/browser/standalone';` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see on **line 6**, you need to import the **AsyncApiStandalone** bundle with the `import AsyncApiStandalone from '@asyncapi/react-component/browser/standalone';` command.
```

3️⃣ There is one more thing to do. If you like AsyncAPI styling then you need to go to 👉 `node_modules/@asyncapi/react-component/style/default.min.css`.

Copy that file and then paste it into your _**assets**_ folder.
I renamed mine **asyncapi.min.css**.

> You can import this in your **main.js** file with `import './assets/asyncapi.min.css'` or, as I did, add it at the end of **App.vue** file with `<style scope src="@/assets/asyncapi.min.css"></style>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can import this in your **main.js** file with `import './assets/asyncapi.min.css'` or, as I did, add it at the end of the **App.vue** file with `<style scope src="@/assets/asyncapi.min.css"></style>`.
```

---

### <a name="wc"></a>Web Components

To generate documentation from your AsyncAPI file, you can use it as an element of an HTML webpage or as a web component in any other web framework you choose. You can do this by using [web-react-components](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/web-component.md).

> 1️⃣ Just create a **.html** file then copy and paste this code 👇

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1️⃣ Just create an **.html** file, then copy and paste this code 👇
```

3️⃣ In the **body** element type in:

```html
 <div id="asyncapi"></div>

    <script src="https://unpkg.com/@asyncapi/react-component@1.0.0-next.39/browser/standalone/index.js"></script>
    <script>
        AsyncApiStandalone.render({
            schema: '{"asyncapi":"2.4.0","info":{"title":"Account Service","version":"1.0.0","description":"This service is in charge of processing user signups"},"channels":{"user/signedup":{"subscribe":{"message":{"$ref":"#/components/messages/UserSignedUp"}}}},"components":{"messages":{"UserSignedUp":{"payload":{"type":"object","properties":{"displayName":{"type":"string","description":"Name of the user"},"email":{"type":"string","format":"email","description":"Email of the user"}}}}}}}'
            ,
            config: {
                show: {
                    sidebar: false,
                }
            },
        }, document.getElementById('asyncapi'));
    </script>
```

`<script src="https://unpkg.com/@asyncapi/react-component@1.0.0-next.39/browser/standalone/index.js"></script>` fetches everything required from the bundle.

I almost forgot.

There is one more way to configure the AsyncAPI component.

> You can do it through **config** props, this same as for normal React component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can do it through **config** props; the same as for the normal React component.
```

My **Web Component** and **Standalone Bundle** usage examples have `config='{"show": {"sidebar": false}}` which turns a sidebar off, but if you change it to _**true**_ then your rendered document will have a sidebar.

> This was only a sample of what could be done. AsyncAPI can do a lot more. Check [AsyncAPI documentation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tutorials/getting-started/asyncapi-documents) for more information on how to generate docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This was only a sample of what could be done. AsyncAPI can do a lot more. Check out the [AsyncAPI documentation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tutorials/getting-started/asyncapi-documents) for more information on how to generate docs.
```

> I hope that you liked this quick guide through AsyncAPI Client-Side documents generation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I hope you liked this quick guide about the AsyncAPI client side document generation.
```

  },
  "channels": {
    "user/signedup": {
      "subscribe": {
        "message": {
          "$ref": "#/components/messages/UserSignedUp"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "components": {
    "messages": {
      "UserSignedUp": {
        "payload": {
          "type": "object",
          "properties": {
            "displayName": {
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Name of the user"
            },
            "email": {
              "type": "string",
              "format": "email",
              "description": "Email of the user"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This is the expected look of the generated document 👇

![document-template](/img/posts/event-driven-API-documentation-made-simple/document-template.webp "Document template")

All usage examples from this article are available to check on the [asyncapi-docs-rendering-examples](https://github.com/m1ner79/asyncapi-docs-rendering-examples) repository.

---

### <a name="react"></a>React

If you wish to render documentation from your AsyncAPI file in React application, then you need to use the [AsyncAPI React component](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react).

> 1️⃣ To install the **React AsyncAPI component** run the command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1️⃣ To install the **React AsyncAPI component** run the command:
```

```bash
npm install --save @asyncapi/react-component@next
```

2️⃣ Now, create a **index.js** file and type the following:

```js
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";

import AsyncApiComponent from "@asyncapi/react-component";
import "@asyncapi/react-component/styles/default.min.css";

import { specMock } from "./testDoc";

const rootElement = document.getElementById("root");
ReactDOM.render(<AsyncApiComponent schema={specMock} />, rootElement);
```

Here we can see that the **React AsyncAPI component** is imported on **line 4**.

If you are happy with AsyncAPI styling then you need to import their CSS pattern with:

\```js
import "@asyncapi/react-component/styles/default.min.css";

> \```

Reviewer: Could you remove that `/` at the beginning of backticks? I added it to the suggestion, because markdown suggestions don't support three ``` and by this suggestion is broken.

Author: @magicmatatjahu that is fixed

**Line 7** is where the sample AsyncAPI file is imported.

---

### <a name="vue"></a>Vue

If you wish to generate documentation from your AsyncAPI file in a Vue application, you need to use the [AsyncApiStandalone bundle](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/vue.md).

The given instructions are for Vue 2.x.

> 1️⃣ The React AsyncAPI component is also required here, so you need to run the command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1️⃣ The React AsyncAPI component is also required here, so you need to run the command:
```

```

2️⃣ In your **App.vue** just add this code:

```vue
<template>
  <div ref="asyncapi"></div>
</template>

<script>
import AsyncApiStandalone from '@asyncapi/react-component/browser/standalone';

// AsyncAPI specification, fetched or pasted.
const schema =
'{"asyncapi":"2.4.0","info":{"title":"Account Service","version":"1.0.0","description":"This service is in charge of processing user signups"},"channels":{"user/signedup":{"subscribe":{"message":{"$ref":"#/components/messages/UserSignedUp"}}}},"components":{"messages":{"UserSignedUp":{"payload":{"type":"object","properties":{"displayName":{"type":"string","description":"Name of the user"},"email":{"type":"string","format":"email","description":"Email of the user"}}}}}}}';

const config = {}; // Configuration for component. This same as for normal React component.

export default {
  name: 'AsyncApiComponent',
  props: {
    msg: String
  },
  mounted() {
    const container = this.$refs.asyncapi;
    AsyncApiStandalone.render({ schema, config }, container);
  }
}
</script>

<style scope src="@/assets/asyncapi.min.css"></style>
```

As you can see on **line 6**, you need to import the **AsyncApiStandalone** bundle with command

> ```vue

Reviewer: It can be normal js :)

```suggestion
```js
```

import AsyncApiStandalone from '@asyncapi/react-component/browser/standalone';
```

3️⃣ If you like AsyncAPI styling, then there is one more thing to do. You can do it in few ways:

◾ First way; you need to go to 👉 `node_modules/@asyncapi/react-component/style/default.min.css`.

Copy that file and then paste it into your _**assets**_ folder.
I renamed mine **asyncapi.min.css**.

Then, you can import this in your **main.js** file with
```js
import './assets/asyncapi.min.css'
```

> 

Reviewer: We can add here another section:

```suggestion
You can also import it at the end of the **App.vue** file with:

/```Vue
<style scope src='./assets/asyncapi.min.css'></style>
/```
```

> ◾ Second way; add it at the end of the **App.vue** file with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second way; import styles from `@asyncapi/react-component` package:
```

```Vue
<style scope src='@asyncapi/react-component/style/default.min.css'></style>
```

---

### <a name="wc"></a>Web Components

To generate documentation from your AsyncAPI file, you can use it as an element of an HTML webpage or as a web component in any other web framework you choose. You can do this by using [web-react-components](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/web-component.md).

> 1️⃣ Just create an **.html** file, then copy and paste this code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1️⃣ Just create an **.html** file, then copy and paste this code:
```

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@asyncapi/web-component@1.0.0-next.39/lib/asyncapi-web-component.js" defer></script>

<asyncapi-component
  schema='{"asyncapi":"2.4.0","info":{"title":"Account Service","version":"1.0.0","description":"This service is in charge of processing user signups"},"channels":{"user/signedup":{"subscribe":{"message":{"$ref":"#/components/messages/UserSignedUp"}}}},"components":{"messages":{"UserSignedUp":{"payload":{"type":"object","properties":{"displayName":{"type":"string","description":"Name of the user"},"email":{"type":"string","format":"email","description":"Email of the user"}}}}}}}'

  config='{"show": {"sidebar": false}}'

  cssImportPath="https://unpkg.com/@asyncapi/react-component@1.0.0-next.39/styles/default.min.css">
</asyncapi-component>
```

> 2️⃣ If you need support for old browsers then you need to add this script as well

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2️⃣ If you need support for old browsers then you need to add this script as well:
```

 <div id="asyncapi"></div>

    <script src="https://unpkg.com/@asyncapi/react-component@1.0.0-next.39/browser/standalone/index.js"></script>
    <script>
        AsyncApiStandalone.render({
            schema: '{"asyncapi":"2.4.0","info":{"title":"Account Service","version":"1.0.0","description":"This service is in charge of processing user signups"},"channels":{"user/signedup":{"subscribe":{"message":{"$ref":"#/components/messages/UserSignedUp"}}}},"components":{"messages":{"UserSignedUp":{"payload":{"type":"object","properties":{"displayName":{"type":"string","description":"Name of the user"},"email":{"type":"string","format":"email","description":"Email of the user"}}}}}}}'
            ,
            config: {
                show: {
                    sidebar: true,
                }
            },
        }, document.getElementById('asyncapi'));
    </script>
```

This fetches everything required from the bundle
```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@asyncapi/react-component@1.0.0-next.39/browser/standalone/index.js"></script>
```

There is one more way to configure the AsyncAPI component.
You can do it through **config** props; the same as for the normal React component.

> My **Web Component** and **Standalone Bundle** usage examples have `config='{"show": {"sidebar": true}}` which turns on the sidebar, but if you change it to _**false**_ then your rendered document will not have that sidebar. Whatever works best for you.

Reviewer: Please make here multiline code block for `config='{"show": {"sidebar": true}}` :)

Author: @magicmatatjahu that is now fixed

I almost forgot.

> AsyncAPI Standalone Bundle can be used in Angular 2. Please check the [official docs](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/angular.md) if that is something that you may need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI Standalone Bundle can be used in Angular 2+. Please check the [official docs](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi-react/blob/next/docs/usage/angular.md) if that is something that you may need.
```

|>=2 version of Angular is called usually Angular 2+

---
title: Event driven API documentation made simple (Client-Side Rendering).

> date: 2022-08-22T9:43:15+01:00

Reviewer 3: @m1ner79 let us release it next Tuesday as there is another blog that we already want to release this Thursday

```suggestion
date: 2022-09-28T06:00:00+01:00
```
